In Forensic Anthropology (FA), estimating age-at-death in adult individuals is one of the most challenging tasks in the human identification process. Traditional methods and osseous indicators are characterized by a tedious application and an accuracy of less than 95%. In recent years, entheseal changes (EC) have shown a high correlation with age. 
The main objective of this study is to evaluate the potential of the EC as a valid age indicator for the age estimation of adult individuals in FA. To achieve this, a component-based approach was employed, and a decision rule system was validated using a probabilistic approach with a naïve Bayes classifier on a sample of 139 individuals from two Spanish populations.
The main results of this study indicate that the component-based approach is a valid alternative to ensure replicability between observers, and provides a promising methodological basis to propose a standard method for age estimation using EC. Furthermore, the use of a decision rule system emerges as a promising alternative for age estimation using EC. Key findings in this regard reveal that Machine Learning-based models perform effectively in older individuals, but more analysis is needed to determine the accuracy in middle-aged individuals, in addition to lower accuracy being observed in younger individuals. These findings suggest that, despite the potential of the proposed probabilistic approach, improvements are necessary, particularly by using larger, more balanced samples to comprehensively assess accuracy across all age categories. Although the findings of this study align with previous research, further studies are required to fully evaluate the effectiveness of EC in FA, especially to determine whether these skeletal indicators can address the complexity of estimating age in older individuals.
